# MSS_ADVANCE Revenge
Number of Points: 400

## Description
Last time we went easy on you. You'll never get the flag this time! chall.py output.txt

## Hints
* What are lattices?

## Analysis
As hint suggests, this is a problem of solving a close vector problem on a lattice.

(Note that polynomial evaluation is done using Horner's method.)

Given bunch of $(X_i, Y_i)$ where $i=0, 1, \cdots, 19$,
we can write a linear system of equations.

```math
\begin{align}
c_0 X_0^{29} + c_1 X_1^{28} + \cdots + c_{29} \equiv Y_0 \mod p \\
c_0 X_1^{29} + c_1 X_1^{28} + \cdots + c_{29} \equiv Y_1 \mod p \\
c_0 X_2^{29} + c_1 X_2^{28} + \cdots + c_{29} \equiv Y_2 \mod p \\
\vdots \\
c_0 X_{19}^{29} + c_1 X_{19}^{28} + \cdots + c_{29} \equiv Y_{29} \mod p
\end{align}
```
Note that we have 20 equations for 30 unknowns which is not a fully determined system.
We also note that all equations are done in modulo $p$ which is a 1024-bit prime number, and all other numbers are 256-bit unsigned integers.

Let us first get rid of the "modulo" constraint by adding slack variables $d_0, d_1, \cdots, d_{19}$ where so that the equations can be written as:

```math
\underbrace{
\begin{pmatrix}
X_0^{29} & X_0^{28} & \cdots & X_0 & 1 & p & 0 & 0 & \cdots & 0 & -Y_0 \\
X_1^{29} & X_1^{28} & \cdots & X_1 & 1 & 0 & p & 0 & \cdots & 0 & -Y_1 \\
\vdots \\
X_{19}^{29} & X_{19}^{28} & \cdots & X_{19} & 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 & \cdots & p & -Y_{19}
\end{pmatrix}
}_{(A|pI|-\mathbf{y})}
\begin{pmatrix}
c_0 \\
c_1 \\
\cdots \\
c_{29} \\
d_{0} \\
d_{1} \\
\vdots \\
d_{19} \\
1
\end{pmatrix}
=
0
```

We can put this into a relevant lattice form. (Note that mathematically, bases are in column vectors, but SageMath and many math libraries prefer row-major operation for optimization, so will be putting them in rows.)

```math
B = 
\begin{pmatrix}
pI & 0 & 0\\
A^T & I & 0\\
-\mathbf{y}^T & 0 & p
\end{pmatrix}
```

Here are a few justifications for additional terms:
* $I$ in the middle is used for "capturing" the output of the algorithm. Will be reading from this matrix.
* $p$ at the last entry of the matrix is the "penalty weight" where if not given, LLL may return a trivial vector, which is not even close to values generated by the hash algorithm.

Then, we use an algorithm called the **Lenstra–Lenstra–Lovász (LLL) lattice basis reduction algorithm**.

Essentially this is a row-reduction, but on steroids as it works on lattice. Like, genuinely this is a black magic when it comes to working on lattices.

(Note that $I$ being used as a "capturing" the output is analogous to how if you apply row reduction to $(A|I)$, you get $(I|A^{-1})$ where you can read off where $I$ was for the inverse matrix of $A$.)

From rows from index 20 to 49, check the last entry, and see if it is $p$ or $-p$ , as it signifies that it is a potential solution.

Then later verify as a sanity check if for multiple $i=0, 1, \cdots, 29$ then
$SHA256(c_i) = c_{i+1}$

$c_0$ is the key that can be used for decrypting.

### Failed Attempts?
This is a summary my first idea before the whole lattice shenanigan (which did not work).

An idea I had was to use factor theorem and attempt to write it as a nested $a = qd + r$ form, basically.

Given $(X_1, Y_1)$ one could write $p(x) = Q_1(x)(x-X_0) + Y_0$

One could evaluate $Q_1(X_2)$, and do a similar trick, and end up with

```math
Q_i(x) = Q_{i+1}(x)(x-X_{i+1}) + \frac{Y_{i+1} - Y_i}{X_{i+1} - X_i}
```

I thought the chaining of SHA256 might be useful as additional info but it was not unfortunately.

## Solution
Implementation is given in [analysis.ipynb](./analysis.ipynb). Note that SageMath kernel is needed.
